Tickets/dm 53895 - reorg (#11)
lsst/rtn-046: dmsci.tex

\section{DM Science} \label{sec:dmsci}

> DM-Science Team Led by the DM Scientist would look after  DMS science validation, community liaison, optimization of the as-built DMS, new scientific opportunities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DM Science Team, led by the DM Lead Scientist, is responsible for validating the DMS scientifically, liaising with the community, optimizing the as-built system, and identifying new scientific opportunities.
```

> This would also be the home for  cross-functional teams with no dedicated staff as  forums at which to raise issues and address cross-cutting topics, ensuring alignment with Rubin \& LSST science goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DM  Science Team would  oversee DM-related science units as they transition from construction to operations, facilitating the integration of their contributions into standard DM operations workflows.

The DM Science Team serves as a forum at which to raise cross-functional topics within DM and ensure alignment with Rubin and LSST science objectives. 
```

> Leadership and participation in the performance hub/task force is also assumed under this guise.

Reviewer: I'd remove this. It is beyond the remit of the DM Scientist to lead higher-level performance work.

> This group would provide science-driven prioritization of cross-department activities and global validation, trend analysis, KPI tracking, and anomaly detection  based on high-quality deliverables from each department.  Provides a forum at which to raise issues and address cross-cutting topics, provide cross-functional coordination, ensuring alignment with Rubin \& LSST science goals.

Reviewer: I think the DM Scientist is responsible for doing this for DM - and then raising any issues to the head of Science. The Head of LSST leads the KPIs for the whole system

> \subsection{DM Science Lead}

Reviewer 2: DM Science Lead or DM Scientist as the role title?

Author: We must decide .. probably DM Scientist

Reviewer: DM Lead Scientist.  There are many scientists in DM.

> \subsection{DM Science Lead}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\subsection{DM Lead Scientist}
```

{\bf to end up in Staffing Sheet roles  and then appear in  \secref{sec:roles}}

> The DM Scientist has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring DM initiatives provide solutions that meet the overall LSST science goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DM Lead Scientist has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring DM initiatives provide solutions that enable transformative science with LSST across all its science drivers.
```

> As such, this person leads the definition and understanding of the science goals and deliverables of the LSST Data Management and is accountable for communicating these to the DM engineering teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, this person leads the definition and understanding of the science goals and deliverables of LSST Data Management and is accountable for communicating these to the DM engineering teams, and working with the DM engineering teams to validate their deliverables.
```

> The DM Scientist  reports to the Rubin Director /

Reviewer 2: Reporting to the Rubin Director would put the DM Scientist on the same level as the AD for DM: is this intended, or should the DM Scientist report to the Associate Director for Data Management? May need discussion.

Reviewer: Agree - this is not a role that should report to the Director. There is a conflict of interest though in reporting to the AD. I would suggest that the DM lead scientist reports to the LSST lead scientist, with the ADs reporting to the Director. 

Similarly, the DM Scientist does not need to be in the operations exec

> The DM Scientist  reports to the Rubin Director /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DM Lead Scientist  reports to the Rubin Head of LSST
```

> The DM Scientist  is a member of the DM and Rubin Change Control Boards and the Rubin Operations Science Team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DM Lead Scientist  is a member of the DM and Rubin Change Control Boards and the Rubin Operations Science Team.
```

He/she chairs and directs the work of the DM  Science Team.

> Specific responsibilities and authorities include:

Reviewer 2: Maybe the text above this line could go in the formal role description, and the specifics below just live in this Mgmt Plan?

Reviewer: The role above has been updated. I think now that this remains here.

\begin{itemize}
\item Communicates with DM science stakeholders (Rubin directors, Scientists and Team, advisory bodies, the science community) to understand their needs and identifies aspects to be satisfied by the DM Department.
\item Develops, maintains, and articulates the vision of DM products and services responsive to stakeholder needs.

> \item Communicates the DM System vision to DM stakeholders. Works with the DMAD to communicate and articulate the DM System vision, requirements and especially priorities  to the DM  team.

Reviewer: This explains why the DM lead scientist should not report to the AD of DM

\item Develops and/or evaluates proposed changes to DM deliverables driven by schedule, budget, or other constraints.

> \item Validates the science quality of DM deliverables and the capability of all elements of the DM System to achieve LSST science goalsi with the V\&V team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item Validates the science quality of DM deliverables and the capability of all elements of the DM System to achieve LSST science goals with the Data Validation team.
```

\item Serves as Data Management Liaison as requested by Science Collaborations or agrees delegates.

\item Defines the science acceptance criteria for DM deliverables (both final and intermediate) and validates that they have been met (Science Validation).

> \item Delegates authority and responsibility as appropriate to institutional Science Leads and other DM science Team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item Delegates authority and responsibility as appropriate to other DM Science Leads
